[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey
there, blogcasters.
Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
So today we're going to
be talking about something
which we probably
don't touch on enough
but which is crucially
important for anybody
who is building web components
and that is accessibility.
And if you're building
custom controls,
custom elements and things
like that, accessibility
is extremely important
for you to factor
into your application.
Because when you
make custom elements,
you're basically
creating a brand new tag
in the browser, which
means that that tag has
no built-in semantics, it has
no built-in keyboard support.
And so it's up to us to
add those features back in.
So to do that, I'm going
to split this into kind
of like a three-part series.
We're going to cover a few
big topics in accessibility.
Today we're going to
focus on keyboard support.
So what we're going to build,
if you follow me over here
to my laptop, is the sort
of checkbox component.
And I've zoomed in the page
so it's like a giant checkbox.
But you can see that I
can click on it, right,
to toggle its state.
I can also hit Tab to focus it.
I can hit the spacebar
on my keyboard
to activate its state
that way as well.
So that's what we're going
to cover today, just getting
sort of the basic keyboard
functionality working
for this custom checkbox.
Now, the first thing
I'm going to do
is go over to my Code Editor.
And I've already gone
ahead and created
sort of a basic element, which
I'm calling dash checkbox.
What I want to do here
is I want to start off
by giving it just like
a checked attribute
that we can toggle back and
forth so we know whether it's
checked or not.
To do that, I will go down
to my elements definition.
I will give it a
properties object,
and then create a
property called checked.
And checked is going to
be a Boolean property.
So we'll set the
type to Boolean.
We'll set the default
value to false.
And because I want this to
reflect as an attribute,
so I want it to actually show up
in the DOM whenever it changes,
I'm also going to set the
reflect to attribute property.
I'm going to set that
flag to true as well.
Now, the next thing
that I want to do
is I want to listen for whenever
the user taps on my checkbox.
So when they
actually click on it,
I'm going to toggle that
attribute on or off.
To do this, I can add a
listeners object to my element.
And I will expand
this a little bit
to give us some more
room to work with.
So in this listener's
object, you can actually
listen for different events.
So I can listen for tap or key
down or something like that.
So I will listen for
tap, and I will give it
a handler called onTap
to run any time someone
taps on our element.
And inside of onTap--
this will be pretty
straightforward-- we're just
going to say, hey, whatever
the state of checked was,
we'll say this dot checked
equals the opposite of
whatever checked currently is.
So we're basically just toggling
that state back and forth,
and that should then
reflect to our attribute.
Now, the last thing I need
to do so I can actually
see this thing on
the screen is just
drop in a little bit of CSS.
I've actually got some
CSS that I've saved here,
and you can see that I'm
styling the host element.
I'm setting it to
display inline block,
I'm giving it a little black
2-pixel border around it.
I'm giving it some
explicit width and height.
So we're going to draw a box.
And then when that
checked attribute
is set-- you can see here I'm
using an attribute selector
inside my host
selector-- when that
checked attribute
is set, we're going
to set our background
to the SVG image here,
which is basically
just a little checkmark
SVG that I've saved already.
So I think this is
actually ready to try out.
So we can go over
to our terminal.
We can run polymer serve --open.
If you aren't familiar
with this command,
we covered it in
a previous episode
when we were talking
Polymer CLI so you could run
mpm install -g polymer -cli.
This will get you the
Polymer Command Line tools so
can run the local server
and test out your elements.
So I'm going to run
polymer serve --open,
and that should
open up the page,
and now we can see our
little checkbox here.
And when I click on it, we can
see our checkmark showing up.
Importantly, if we
open up our dev tools,
and we inspect this guy,
and we sort of boost
the page a little
bit, we can see
that that checked attribute
is currently being applied.
When I click it
again, it goes away.
OK.
So far so good.
Now, we've got this thing
working for basically a mouse
user, which is great,
but I mentioned today
our goal is to also
make sure that we're
adding proper keyboard support.
And that's really
important for anyone
who might have
repetitive stress injury,
something like carpal tunnel
syndrome-- they might prefer
not to use a mouse--
or someone who
might have a form of paralysis
or limited range of motion,
who might be using something
like a switch device
to access the page.
So for those users,
we need to figure out
what sort of keyboard
support we need
to add to a control like this.
And a really, really
useful resource
here is the ARIA
design patterns sort
of authoring practices doc.
Now, I'm going to talk about
ARIA in the next episode,
so you don't really need
to worry about it for now.
But basically, you can
think of this as kind
of like a helpful guide
that will sort of tell you,
hey, based on this sort of
UI that you're building,
here is the kind
of keyboard support
and other sort of semantics you
need to roll into that element.
So I'm going to Google for
ARIA authoring practices 1.1.
It's the first result here
is what I'm looking for.
Over here on the
left-hand side, you
can see a bunch of
UI patterns listed.
And the one that we're
interested in is checkbox.
So we go and we click on that.
And now we've got this
whole big description
that tells us all
sorts of information
about what a checkbox
component should
do in order to be accessible.
The information that I'm
interested in particularly
right now is this keyboard
interaction section.
So it tells me when
the checkbox has focus,
pressing the Space key
should change the state
of the checkbox, right?
So the Space key
would kind of be
like when our user goes and
clicks on it with a mouse.
Now, there's two
important points here
that it's just made.
One is that we need to make
sure the element actually
can be focused.
And then the other
is that we need
to listen for the Space key
and toggle that checked state
of our element.
So let's go back
to our code editor,
and the first question
is how are we going
to make this thing focusable?
Because, by default,
a custom element
is basically like a span.
There's nothing about
a custom element
that makes it
implicitly focusable.
It's not added to the
tab order, and the user
is not going to be able to
reach it using their keyboard.
So to do this, we can add a tab
index attribute to our element.
And tab index is kind of
like a range of values.
You could have tab
index of 0, which
will insert the element
in the natural tab order.
You can have a tab
index of negative 1,
which will not insert the
element in the tab order,
but it could still
be programmatically
focusable by calling
its focus method.
You could also have tab
index of greater than 0.
You could have a
tab index of like 5
or something like that, which
would jump your element ahead
of everything in the tab order.
But generally, that's kind of
considered an anti-pattern.
It can lead to sort of
really confusing tab orders
in your page.
So I think the best
option for us in this case
is to give our element
a tab index of 0,
and that way the user can just
easily hit the Tab key to reach
it with their keyboard.
To do this in
Polymer, we actually
have this really
helpful property
that we can add to
our definition called
host attributes.
Host attributes
is basically going
to apply an attribute
to an element.
So it's self-applying
an attribute.
And I will say tab
index should be 0.
And now if we go back
to our application,
we refresh the page, you can see
over here in my Inspector now,
tab index of 0 is
being self-applied.
And if I press the Tab key,
now we see the focus ring
around our element.
Cool.
So the last part is, we just
need to make sure that when
the user presses the
spacebar, that it toggles
the state of our element.
And there are two ways that
we could go about this.
We could either add those
event listeners ourselves,
kind of manually, right?
And then make sure to
remove those event listeners
when we take the
element out of the DOM.
That would totally work,
but I'm super lazy.
I like writing as
little code as possible.
So the other thing
we can do is we
can use a very useful behavior
created by the Polymer team
called IronA11yKeysBehavior.
A11y stands for accessibility.
So what I'm going to do
is I'm actually going
to just install this behavior.
So bower install
--save PolymerElements/
IronA11yKeysBehavior.
OK.
That's going to go out and fetch
that, pull it into my project.
Then I can just add that
to my element definition.
So we'll import that
right after I import
polymer IronA11yKeysBehavior.
And the last thing I
want to do is add that
to my behaviors array.
So I'll say that I
have behaviors array.
We will add
Polymer.IronA11yKeysBehavior.
And what this is
going to do is it's
going to make this keybindings
object available to me.
And this keybindings
object is kind
of like my listeners
object down here.
I can just use it to listen
for different key presses
and assign those to a handler.
So I'll say keybindings.
I will say, I want to
listen to the Space key.
And when I hear someone
press the Space key,
I just want to run basically
that same onTap command
from before.
So let's go back and
test that in our project
now will refresh the page.
We will hit Tab to
focus our element.
We hit Space, and now
we've got our checkbox.
And now we've got basic
keyboarding support
added to this element.
Now, I mentioned
that there were going
to be two other
sections to this series.
We're going to talk
about semantics,
we're going to talk
about labeling.
But I think this is
enough for today.
So definitely go out
there, play around
with IronA11yKeysBehavior,
go out there and check out
that ARIA design patterns doc.
It is full of super
useful information.
We're going to pick up
here in the next episode
and work on adding
semantics to this element
so it'll start working
for a screen reader.
But that's it for today.
If you have any questions,
please leave them for me
down in the comments
below or hit me up
on a social network of your
choosing at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching.
I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]